A third approach is a binding API.
JSON binding produces serialized JSON from Java objects by
inspecting the structure of the object.
So whenever it encounters a field in a Java object,
it writes out the appropriate JSON field definition.
For consistency,
we're going to produce the same loan application as we had in module
1 and the two previous JSON serialization demos.
This time, we're going to use the binding API.
I'm going to say we're going to use the API.
It's not really an API in the traditional sense.
We can't write code using the API in order to emit JSON.
We'll just be handing out objects over to a binding API that will
inspect the object and write it out as JSON for us.
So the binding API with Jackson is an API that will just inspect your
Java objects and convert them directly to JSON,
taking advantage of the fact that the Java object structure is
also reflective of a JSON object structure.
So in order to start this process,
we need to create an object called an ObjectMapper.
An ObjectMapper is an object that is capable of doing
mapping between Java objects and JSON.
We can create a writer here, which is an object that will do the writing.
So a mapper can deal with reading and writing and a writer can do writing.
So going from Java to JSON, reading being JSON to Java.
We'll look at that later.
And the binding API approach will be just to take that objectWriter and write
the value that we're passing in here to an output stream.
So what we're going to do is we're going to write into System.
out, parsing the loanApplication in,
and we'll just see the value written out to the end.
So we've got this produced JSON value from it,
just straight from this three lines of code,
nice and simple.
Now obviously, we want to have a read of what's going on with this output value,
so we will say take a writer with a pretty printer,
just the same pretty printer concept that we saw earlier.
And this gives us a JSON object that has lots of fields and we
can see what the value of those fields are.
So we can see the name is the same, the purposeOfLoan is the same.
The things that are weird and different,
however, are this startDate and this endDate,
okay, because those have been converted.
They've inspected the local date objects that we've been using to
represent those things and passing very complicated representations
out here that we don't want to use.
Now, don't worry about that for now.
When we come onto the section about consuming JSON with a binding API,
we'll show you how you can customize this output and input
because it works the same way and fix that problem.
But for now, we've just shown a very, very,
very quick and simple way of producing JSON objects using this ObjectWriter.
And the other thing to remember is you can also writeValue
wrapping up multiple different sources of output.
You could take an OutputStream, a file, and DataOutput,
just like we saw with the earlier example of a JSON
generator and we can write a value as a string.
We then assign this string to a variable,
producing a jsonString, and then printing out the jsonString at the end.
Lovely like that.
So that would give you an option if you want to do something different
with your jsonString other than write it into a stream.
For example,
maybe you want to put that jsonString into a document storage system. Fantastic.